Outreach/FDroidUserSurvey.md, before:

## poll 14, 2022-11-23

> How long is your current phone in service?
> 
> #FDroidUserSurvey
> 
> 19% - less than 1 year  
> 21% - less than 2 years  
> 48% - less than 5 years  
> 12% - longer than 5 years

1904 votes

https://floss.social/@fdroidorg/109392753049950224

## poll 13, 2022-10-30

> Do you use the #android VPN feature? (eg. for your #AdBlocker, or to route internet traffic over #Tor or a #VPN)
> 
> 67% - yes  
> 33% - no

1236 votes

https://floss.social/web/@fdroidorg/109256167713077717

## poll 12, 2022-09-29

> What do you think about #Android #Privacy Indicator? It's a little dot showing up in your status bar when an app accesses your microphone, camera, location or other sensitive data. (became first available on Android 12)
>
> 60% - useful  
> 4% - not useful  
> 34% - I don't have this feature (Android 11 or older)  
> 2% - other (see comments)

636 votes

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/109081013331977961

## poll 11, 2022-09-05

> Do you think you spend too much time on your phone?
>
> 31% - no  
> 66% - yes  
> 3% - other (see comments)

743 votes

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/109001652512310331

## poll 10, 2022-06-23

> Do you use #FDroid on de-googled or stock #android?  
>   
> #gafam #google #privacy  
>   
> 68% - yes  
> 16% - no (don't care; need some google apps/services)  
> 3% - no (not yet; didn't know that's an option)  
> 14% - no (my phone doesn't support custom ROMs)  

1,031 votes (49+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/108525955215170811

## poll 9, 2022-04-02

> How much money do you spend on apps?
>
> 74% - < 12 €/$ (per year)  
> 19% - < 60 €/$ (per year)  
> 4% - < 120 €/$ (per year)  
> 3% - > 120 €/$ (per year)

725 votes (35+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/108062248190455448

## poll 8, 2022-02-24

> Do you think it's fair/justified that #AppStore and #GooglePlay take a (quite substantial) percentage of each every transaction in apps they're shipping and that they refuse to ship apps with alternative donation/payment providers?
>
> 4% - yes  
> 20% - yes, if fees were lower  
> 73% - no  
> 3% - other (see comments)

591 votes (25+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107853673112259338

## poll 7, 2022-02-03

> Here's another question for the #FDroid user base: Do you think you are tech savvy?
>
> 11% - no  
> 83% - yes  
> 7% - show results/not a user

814 votes (15+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107733482674792869


## poll 6, 2021-12-12

> How many apps are installed on your phone? (not counting pre-installed ones)
>
> 16% - less than 15 apps  
> 26% - less than 30 apps  
> 28% - less than 60 apps  
> 30% - 60+ apps

1182 votes (38+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107432835152687088


## poll 5, 2021-11-15

> Have you ever helped someone install #FDroid or a custom #Android ROM on their device?
>
> 28% - no  
> 21% - 1 person  
> 34% - 2-3 persons  
> 17% - 4+ persons

819 votes (12+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107282308506133052


## poll 4, 2021-10-28

> Do you check for supported/available #android ROMs before getting a new/refurbished phone?
>
> 11% - no  
> 89% - yes

742 votes (24+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107179649271823587


## poll 3, 2021-08-12

> What distribution channels do you rely on, to get all the #android #apps you need?
>
> 13% F-Droid repo only  
> 21% F-Droid + community repo  
> 65% F-Droid + PlayStore (AuroraStore/ApkPure/…)  
> 1% other (see conments)

1013 votes

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/106743698930732237


## poll 2, 2021-08-04

> What’s most important for you, when you’re getting a new (or refurbished) phone?
>
> 40% advanced privacy features  
> 25% good camera/cpu/battery/…  
> 23% environmental/social impact  
> 12% something else (see comment)

699 mastodon user voted (80+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/web/statuses/106698120985747014


## poll 1, 2021-07-24

> Hey #Fediverse! Like so many other #FreeSoftware projects, keeping #FDroid up and running is a community effort. Have you ever contributed to any #FLOSS Project?
>
> 12% no  
> 57% donations  
> 61% bug-reports/feature-requests  
> 46% development/community work

886 mastodon users voted

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/106635085473378808

Commit message:

Update FDroidUserSurvey: add results of poll 15

Outreach/FDroidUserSurvey.md, after:

## poll 15, 2023-01-09

> Did you know that #FDroid isn't only informing you about #tracking with anti-feature warnings, but also removes non-free trackers from apps? #FDroidUserSurvey
> 
> 37% - yes  
> 63% - no

1,960 votes

https://floss.social/@fdroidorg/109658861652747050

## poll 14, 2022-11-23

> How long is your current phone in service?
> 
> #FDroidUserSurvey
> 
> 19% - less than 1 year  
> 21% - less than 2 years  
> 48% - less than 5 years  
> 12% - longer than 5 years

1904 votes

https://floss.social/@fdroidorg/109392753049950224

## poll 13, 2022-10-30

> Do you use the #android VPN feature? (eg. for your #AdBlocker, or to route internet traffic over #Tor or a #VPN)
> 
> 67% - yes  
> 33% - no

1236 votes

https://floss.social/web/@fdroidorg/109256167713077717

## poll 12, 2022-09-29

> What do you think about #Android #Privacy Indicator? It's a little dot showing up in your status bar when an app accesses your microphone, camera, location or other sensitive data. (became first available on Android 12)
>
> 60% - useful  
> 4% - not useful  
> 34% - I don't have this feature (Android 11 or older)  
> 2% - other (see comments)

636 votes

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/109081013331977961

## poll 11, 2022-09-05

> Do you think you spend too much time on your phone?
>
> 31% - no  
> 66% - yes  
> 3% - other (see comments)

743 votes

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/109001652512310331

## poll 10, 2022-06-23

> Do you use #FDroid on de-googled or stock #android?  
>   
> #gafam #google #privacy  
>   
> 68% - yes  
> 16% - no (don't care; need some google apps/services)  
> 3% - no (not yet; didn't know that's an option)  
> 14% - no (my phone doesn't support custom ROMs)  

1,031 votes (49+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/108525955215170811

## poll 9, 2022-04-02

> How much money do you spend on apps?
>
> 74% - < 12 €/$ (per year)  
> 19% - < 60 €/$ (per year)  
> 4% - < 120 €/$ (per year)  
> 3% - > 120 €/$ (per year)

725 votes (35+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/108062248190455448

## poll 8, 2022-02-24

> Do you think it's fair/justified that #AppStore and #GooglePlay take a (quite substantial) percentage of each every transaction in apps they're shipping and that they refuse to ship apps with alternative donation/payment providers?
>
> 4% - yes  
> 20% - yes, if fees were lower  
> 73% - no  
> 3% - other (see comments)

591 votes (25+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107853673112259338

## poll 7, 2022-02-03

> Here's another question for the #FDroid user base: Do you think you are tech savvy?
>
> 11% - no  
> 83% - yes  
> 7% - show results/not a user

814 votes (15+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107733482674792869


## poll 6, 2021-12-12

> How many apps are installed on your phone? (not counting pre-installed ones)
>
> 16% - less than 15 apps  
> 26% - less than 30 apps  
> 28% - less than 60 apps  
> 30% - 60+ apps

1182 votes (38+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107432835152687088


## poll 5, 2021-11-15

> Have you ever helped someone install #FDroid or a custom #Android ROM on their device?
>
> 28% - no  
> 21% - 1 person  
> 34% - 2-3 persons  
> 17% - 4+ persons

819 votes (12+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107282308506133052


## poll 4, 2021-10-28

> Do you check for supported/available #android ROMs before getting a new/refurbished phone?
>
> 11% - no  
> 89% - yes

742 votes (24+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107179649271823587


## poll 3, 2021-08-12

> What distribution channels do you rely on, to get all the #android #apps you need?
>
> 13% F-Droid repo only  
> 21% F-Droid + community repo  
> 65% F-Droid + PlayStore (AuroraStore/ApkPure/…)  
> 1% other (see conments)

1013 votes

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/106743698930732237


## poll 2, 2021-08-04

> What’s most important for you, when you’re getting a new (or refurbished) phone?
>
> 40% advanced privacy features  
> 25% good camera/cpu/battery/…  
> 23% environmental/social impact  
> 12% something else (see comment)

699 mastodon user voted (80+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/web/statuses/106698120985747014


## poll 1, 2021-07-24

> Hey #Fediverse! Like so many other #FreeSoftware projects, keeping #FDroid up and running is a community effort. Have you ever contributed to any #FLOSS Project?
>
> 12% no  
> 57% donations  
> 61% bug-reports/feature-requests  
> 46% development/community work

886 mastodon users voted

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/106635085473378808
