Fediverse-Polls.md, before:


## poll 2021-12-12

> How many apps are installed on your phone? (not counting pre-installed ones)
>
> 16% - less than 15 apps  
> 26% - less than 30 apps  
> 28% - less than 60 apps  
> 30% - 60+ apps

1182 votes (38+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107432835152687088


## poll 2021-11-15

> Have you ever helped someone install #FDroid or a custom #Android ROM on their device?
>
> 28% - no  
> 21% - 1 person  
> 34% - 2-3 persons  
> 17% - 4+ persons

819 votes (12+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107282308506133052


## poll 2021-10-28

> Do you check for supported/available #android ROMs before getting a new/refurbished phone?
>
> 11% - no  
> 89% - yes

742 votes (24+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107179649271823587


## poll 2021-08-12

> What distribution channels do you rely on, to get all the #android #apps you need?
>
> 13% F-Droid repo only  
> 21% F-Droid + community repo  
> 65% F-Droid + PlayStore (AuroraStore/ApkPure/…)  
> 1% other (see conments)

1013 votes

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/106743698930732237


## poll 2021-08-04

> What’s most important for you, when you’re getting a new (or refurbished) phone?
>
> 40% advanced privacy features  
> 25% good camera/cpu/battery/…  
> 23% environmental/social impact  
> 12% something else (see comment)

699 mastodon user voted (80+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/web/statuses/106698120985747014


## poll 2021-07-24

> Hey #Fediverse! Like so many other #FreeSoftware projects, keeping #FDroid up and running is a community effort. Have you ever contributed to any #FLOSS Project?
>
> 12% no  
> 57% donations  
> 61% bug-reports/feature-requests  
> 46% development/community work

886 mastodon users voted

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/106635085473378808

Commit message:

Update Fediverse Polls: add  poll 2022-02-03

Fediverse-Polls.md, after:

## poll 2022-02-03

> Here's another question for the #FDroid user base: Do you think you are tech savvy?
>
> 11% - no  
> 83% - yes  
> 7% - show results/not a user

814 votes (15+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107733482674792869


## poll 2021-12-12

> How many apps are installed on your phone? (not counting pre-installed ones)
>
> 16% - less than 15 apps  
> 26% - less than 30 apps  
> 28% - less than 60 apps  
> 30% - 60+ apps

1182 votes (38+ replies)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107432835152687088


## poll 2021-11-15

> Have you ever helped someone install #FDroid or a custom #Android ROM on their device?
>
> 28% - no  
> 21% - 1 person  
> 34% - 2-3 persons  
> 17% - 4+ persons

819 votes (12+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107282308506133052


## poll 2021-10-28

> Do you check for supported/available #android ROMs before getting a new/refurbished phone?
>
> 11% - no  
> 89% - yes

742 votes (24+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/107179649271823587


## poll 2021-08-12

> What distribution channels do you rely on, to get all the #android #apps you need?
>
> 13% F-Droid repo only  
> 21% F-Droid + community repo  
> 65% F-Droid + PlayStore (AuroraStore/ApkPure/…)  
> 1% other (see conments)

1013 votes

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/106743698930732237


## poll 2021-08-04

> What’s most important for you, when you’re getting a new (or refurbished) phone?
>
> 40% advanced privacy features  
> 25% good camera/cpu/battery/…  
> 23% environmental/social impact  
> 12% something else (see comment)

699 mastodon user voted (80+ comments)

https://mastodon.technology/web/statuses/106698120985747014


## poll 2021-07-24

> Hey #Fediverse! Like so many other #FreeSoftware projects, keeping #FDroid up and running is a community effort. Have you ever contributed to any #FLOSS Project?
>
> 12% no  
> 57% donations  
> 61% bug-reports/feature-requests  
> 46% development/community work

886 mastodon users voted

https://mastodon.technology/@fdroidorg/106635085473378808
