List-of-F-Droid-repositories.md, before:

State: Dec. 2021

---
## -------------------- Main repos -----------------------------
#### F-Droid Main

Description: Official F-Droid repository, serving apps build directly from its source code & signed by F-Droid.

URL: https://f-droid.org/repo?fingerprint=43238D512C1E5EB2D6569F4A3AFBF5523418B82E0A3ED1552770ABB9A9C9CCAB

🌐 Mirror List: HERE (https://gitlab.com/fdroid/mirror-monitor/-/raw/master/README.md)

#### F-Droid Archive

Description: Archive of the official F-Droid repository. Apps here are old & can contain known vulnerabilities & security issues!

URL: https://f-droid.org/archive?fingerprint=43238D512C1E5EB2D6569F4A3AFBF5523418B82E0A3ED1552770ABB9A9C9CCAB

#### IzzyOnDroid

Description: An F-Droid style repository for Android apps. Applications in this repository are official binaries built by the original application developers. It mostly includes those apps which cannot meet, or are not yet ready to meet F-Droid app inclusion criteria (https://f-droid.org/docs/Inclusion_Policy/?title=Inclusion_Policy).

URL: https://apt.izzysoft.de/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=3BF0D6ABFEAE2F401707B6D966BE743BF0EEE49C2561B9BA39073711F628937A

#### Guardian Project main

Description: Official repository of guardian project apps. All apps build here are from official binaries by dev & signed with same key as on google play store.

URL: https://guardianproject.info/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=B7C2EEFD8DAC7806AF67DFCD92EB18126BC08312A7F2D6F3862E46013C7A6135

#### Guardian Project Archive

Description: Official repository of guardian project apps which contains older versions of apps from main repository.

URL: https://guardianproject.info/fdroid/archive?fingerprint=B7C2EEFD8DAC7806AF67DFCD92EB18126BC08312A7F2D6F3862E46013C7A6135

#### Firefox Unofficial

Description: Unofficial repository for various apps, including firefox, wire, signal and spotify.

URL: https://rfc2822.gitlab.io/fdroid-firefox/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=8F992BBBA0340EFE6299C7A410B36D9C8889114CA6C58013C3587CDA411B4AED

#### DivestOS Official

Description: Official repository for apps created by Divested Computing Group. All apps are developed by Divested Computing Group with the exception of Fennec DOS which is based on Mozilla technology.

URL: https://divestos.org/fdroid/official/?fingerprint=E4BE8D6ABFA4D9D4FEEF03CDDA7FF62A73FD64B75566F6DD4E5E577550BE8467

---
## -------------------------------- Messaging -------------------------
### Signal -----------------
#### TwinHelix - Signal FOSS

Description: Signal FOSS is an open source degoogled fork of Signal for Android that uses OpenStreetMaps for maps and a websocket connection to the Signal server

URL: https://fdroid.twinhelix.com/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=7B03B0232209B21B10A30A63897D3C6BCA4F58FE29BC3477E8E3D8CF8E304028

#### Molly

Description: A fork of Signal messenger with passphrase lock and anti-forensic features.

URL: https://molly.im/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=3B7E93B1FE32C6E35A93D6DDFC5AFBEB1239A7C6EA6AF20FF33ED53CDC38B04A

#### Molly FOSS

Description: FOSS build of Molly without proprietary dependencies. Compatible with microG.

URL: https://molly.im/fdroid/foss/repo?fingerprint=5198DAEF37FC23C14D5EE32305B2AF45787BD7DF2034DE33AD302BDB3446DF74

#### Session
(based on Signal)

Description: Official repository for Session, a private messenger focussed on security with decentralized servers & minimal metadata footprints.

URL: https://fdroid.getsession.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=DB0E5297EB65CC22D6BD93C869943BDCFCB6A07DC69A48A0DD8C7BA698EC04E6

#### Ember's Repo

Description: Unofficial repository for uGet Download manager, the Universal (non-GSF) version of Signal and Freedoom.

URL: https://fdroid.heartshine.xyz/repo?fingerprint=11579B3CE3F5F9398C9E124EE301744382B77250E548F0D4ED90EA0212A5460F

---
### private --------------------
#### Briar

Description: Official repository for Briar an messenger app that does not require any server and hides metadata.

URL: https://briarproject.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=1FB874BEE7276D28ECB2C9B06E8A122EC4BCB4008161436CE474C257CBF49BD6

#### FluffyChat

Description: Official repository for FluffyChat, an Decentralized Chat App, compatible with Riot/Matrix Protocol.

URL: https://fdroid.fluffychat.im/?fingerprint=8E2637AEF6697CC6DD486AF044A6EE45B1A742AE3EF56566E748CDE8BC65C1FB

#### FluffyChat Nightly

Description: Official repository for FluffyChat containing nightly test versions of FluffyChat.

URL: https://nightly.fdroid.fluffychat.im/?fingerprint=21A469657300576478B623DF99D8EB889A80BCD939ACA60A4074741BEAEC397D

#### SchildiChat (with Google Push Notification support)

Description: SchildiChat for Android is a Matrix Client based on Element Android.

URL: https://s2.spiritcroc.de/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=6612ade7e93174a589cf5ba26ed3ab28231a789640546c8f30375ef045bc9242

#### SchildiChat Beta

Description: Official repository for SchildiChat containing beta versions having google push notification & FOSS variant.

URL: https://s2.spiritcroc.de/testing/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=52d03f2fab785573bb295c7ab270695e3a1bdd2adc6a6de8713250b33f231225

#### Quasseldroid by kuschku

Description: Official Repository for all kuschku.de applications, including Quasseldroid.

URL: https://repo.kuschku.de/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=A0CBC2C29E38ED9542F86A1188412A60C5A756FC4D7A31C4C622242D7AD021F2

#### Submarine

Description: Repository contains apps like Launchpad (an audio sequencer), Protox (c++ based tox client).

URL: https://submarine.strangled.net/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=3DB2D09F573245E005B6A54EB5EBF6E6A351D6A5161CFEEFF1442C939597C31B

---
### not completely private --------------
#### Cutthecord

Description: Official repository for cutthecord an modular Client Mod for Discord’s Android app.

URL: https://fdroid.a3.pm/seabear/repo/?fingerprint=9DC9CB5FDD85D37121A5FEE99D24475F03FEA7F2EC25FB94DD51866D87933ED1

#### Ltt.rs

Description: Official repository for Ltt.rs, an easy to use Email client.

URL: https://ltt.rs/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=9C2E57C85C279E5E1A427F6E87927FC1E2278F62D61D7FCEFDE9346E568CCF86

---
## ------------------------ Google related -----------------
#### MicroG

Description: Official repository for microG an free as in freedom re-implementation of Google’s proprietary Android user space apps and libraries.

URL: https://microg.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=9BD06727E62796C0130EB6DAB39B73157451582CBD138E86C468ACC395D14165

#### NewPipe

Description: Official repository for NewPipe, an lightweight Youtube frontend. It contains bleeding edge builds directly from its github.

URL: https://archive.newpipe.net/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=E2402C78F9B97C6C89E97DB914A2751FDA1D02FE2039CC0897A462BDB57E7501

#### Bromite

Description: Bromite is Chromium plus ad blocking and enhanced privacy browser. Official repository of bromite & chromium binaries build by the original app developer.

URL: https://fdroid.bromite.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=E1EE5CD076D7B0DC84CB2B45FB78B86DF2EB39A3B6C56BA3DC292A5E0C3B9504

#### Ungoogled Chromium

Description: Official repository of ungoogled chromium android web browser.

URL: https://www.droidware.info/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=2144449AB1DD270EC31B6087409B5D0EA39A75A9F290DA62AC1B238A0EAAF851

#### Nanolx

Description: Companion repository for Nanodroid, contains patched play store & MPV.

URL: https://nanolx.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=862ED9F13A3981432BF86FE93D14596B381D75BE83A1D616E2D44A12654AD015

---
## --------------------------- popular Apps ----------------------
#### Collabora Office

Description: Official Repository for Collabora Office. An Text editor, Spreadsheet & Presentation program based on Open Source LibreOffice suite. Currently this app is in active development, feedback & bug reports are very welcome.

URL: https://www.collaboraoffice.com/downloads/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=573258C84E149B5F4D9299E7434B2B69A8410372921D4AE586BA91EC767892CC

#### Bitwarden

Description: Official repository for Bitwarden an secure and free password manager for all of your devices.

URL: https://mobileapp.bitwarden.com/fdroid?fingerprint=BC54EA6FD1CD5175BCCCC47C561C5726E1C3ED7E686B6DB4B18BAC843A3EFE6C

---
## --------------------------- Privacy -----------------------
#### I2P

Description: Official repository for I2P, an anonymous network, exposing a simple layer that applications can use to anonymously and securely send messages to each other.

URL: https://f-droid.i2p.io/repo?fingerprint=68E76561AAF3F53DD53BA7C03D795213D0CA1772C3FAC0159B50A5AA85C45DC6

#### Umbrella

Description: Official repository for Security First’s flagship Umbrella app which gives you free digital and physical security advice when you need it most.

URL: https://secfirst.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=39EB57052F8D684514176819D1645F6A0A7BD943DBC31AB101949006AC0BC228

#### Frostnerd (Nebulo)

Description: Official repository for Nebulo an DNS changer app which implements DNS-over-HTTPs and DNS-over-TLS to safely send your DNS requests to the target server.

URL: https://fdroid.frostnerd.com/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=74BB580F263EC89E15C207298DEC861B5069517550FE0F1D852F16FA611D2D26

#### Insporation

Description: Official repository for builds of the Insporation - an flutter based client for diaspora

URL: https://jhass.github.io/insporation/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=EC792A58B39DF9FBB466FB100E30E3842F229FDBC6E28D32C417F6A5B30ECCAE

#### Kali Nethunter

Description: Official Kali Nethunter repository for applications used in penetration testing and forensics.

URL: https://store.nethunter.com/repo?fingerprint=7E418D34C3AD4F3C37D7E6B0FACE13332364459C862134EB099A3BDA2CCF4494

---
## ---------------- specific OS -----------------------
#### The Calyx Institute F-Droid Repository

Description: An F-Droid Repository by Calyx Institute made for their well known CalyxOS mobile OS. All apps in this repo are official binaries built from the source by the developers of CalyxOS.

URL: https://calyxos.gitlab.io/calyx-fdroid-repo/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=C44D58B4547DE5096138CB0B34A1CC99DAB3B4274412ED753FCCBFC11DC1B7B6

#### KDE Nightly

Description: Official repository by KDE containing nightly test versions of their android applications.

URL: https://cdn.kde.org/android/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=B3EBE10AFA6C5C400379B34473E843D686C61AE6AD33F423C98AF903F056523F

---
#### DivestOS Unofficial

Description: This repository contains unofficial builds of open source apps that are not included in the official F-Droid repo or IzzySoft repo.

URL: https://divestos.org/fdroid/unofficial/?fingerprint=A18CDB92F40EBFBBF778A54FD12DBD74D90F1490CB9EF2CC6C7E682DD556855D

#### Wind Offline

Description: Repository contains collection of apps that work offline or with limited internet functionality.

URL: https://guardianproject-wind.s3.amazonaws.com/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=182CF464D219D340DA443C62155198E399FEC1BC4379309B775DD9FC97ED97E1

#### F-Droid Classic

Description: Repository for F-Droid client with the classic UI.

URL: https://bubu1.eu/fdroidclassic/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=5187CFD99F084FFAB2AD60D9D10B39203B89A46DD4862397FE1B1A4F3D46627A

#### Netsyms Technologies

Description: Official repository by Netsyms, an application catalogue to access their apps without Play store.

URL: https://repo.netsyms.com/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=2581BA7B32D3AB443180C4087CAB6A7E8FB258D3A6E98870ECB3C675E4D64489

#### Plight

Description: Official repository of pilight, an open source domotica solution that runs on various small form factor computers like Raspberry Pi etc with support on various types of platforms.

URL: https://android.pilight.org/?fingerprint=AE9E51B4AD1350847C8EBE0833D5C65B052F51371F4167DEF3AB2831CF7B1809

#### Monerujo

Description: Official repository for Monerujo, the first app for managing and using Monero wallets on Android.

URL: https://f-droid.monerujo.io/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=A82C68E14AF0AA6A2EC20E6B272EFF25E5A038F3F65884316E0F5E0D91E7B713

#### Rakshazi

Description: Repository for some foss apps, which are not included in main F-Droid repo like Firefox preview, Skytube extra, Bitwarden & Activity manager.

URL: https://fdroid.rakshazi.me/repo?fingerprint=80BF9EC0BCCED7DA2C9B272FA9B53A30E5B79282CFD629BDE14AB1FF1658C02E

#### Fakecake (tiny tiny rss)

Description: Repository contains apps from git.tt-rss.org. 

URL: https://srv.tt-rss.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=C117B9EAEDFCBA8BEF73263CA9490DB905EDFFFE5D7C071FFAAE152A75FCB6E4

#### F-Droid Nightly

Description: Official repository for f-droid nightly & basic client version.

URL: https://gitlab.com/fdroid/fdroidclient-nightly/raw/master/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=659E1FD284549F70D13FB02C620100E27EEEA3420558CCE62B0F5D4CF2B77D84

#### LibRetro (Retroarch)

Description: Official repository for RetroArch an bleeding edge frontend for emulators, game engines and media players.

URL: https://fdroid.libretro.com/repo?fingerprint=3F05B24D497515F31FEAB421297C79B19552C5C81186B3750B7C131EF41D733D

#### RWTHApp

Description: Official repository for RWTHApp by RWTH Aachen University to help their students about their studies, timetable, grades, feedbacks & other important events right on their smartphone.

URL: https://app.rwth-aachen.de/fdroid?fingerprint=FC61FE95692E4171027C39D46BD25DE20C59D3D09909B5D4CD5EE3692932DC92

#### 2br-2b's Repo

Description: A repository by 2br-2b (https://github.com/2br-2b) for distributing his open source programs, along with one for his friends.

URL: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/2br-2b/Fdroid-repo/master/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=90B5B0DDE20A84FB42CB960F41D279B0D3BB86578A42E773364A5534C0E8D27A

#### Patched Applications (Langis)

Description: Original applications, modified for many purpose as better compatibility, better privacy. Read app description for more info.

URL: https://thecapslock.gitlab.io/fdroid-patched-apps/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=313D9E6E789FF4E8E2D687AAE31EEF576050003ED67963301821AC6D3763E3AC

#### c:geo

Description: Official repository for c:geo stable builds. An open-source, full-featured, always ready-to-go Geocaching application.

URL: https://fdroid.cgeo.org?fingerprint=370BB4D550C391D5DCCB6C81FD82FDA4892964764E085A09B7E075E9BAD5ED98

#### c:geo Nightly

Description: Official repository for c:geo nightly builds.

URL: https://fdroid.cgeo.org/nightly?fingerprint=370BB4D550C391D5DCCB6C81FD82FDA4892964764E085A09B7E075E9BAD5ED98

#### c:geo Legacy

Description: Official repository for c:geo specifically for Legacy devices.

URL: https://fdroid.cgeo.org/legacy?fingerprint=370BB4D550C391D5DCCB6C81FD82FDA4892964764E085A09B7E075E9BAD5ED98

#### Fedilab Apps

Description: Official repository for fedilab apps. Applications in this repository are official binaries built by the developer of Fedilab.

URL: https://fdroid.fedilab.app/repo?fingerprint=11F0A69910A4280E2CD3CCC3146337D006BE539B18E1A9FEACE15FF757A94FEB

#### Sum7 Conv6ations Nightly

Description: Official repository hosting the Nightly builds of Sum7 Conv6ations (https://f-droid.org/app/eu.sum7.conversations) client (FLOSS fork of Conversations.IM). The application held here is official binary built by Genofire (Sum7 Dev).

URL: https://dev.sum7.eu/sum7/Conversations-nightly/raw/master/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=C7E9508038F18C955BAAC0F04EF55E4EEDB31A9AFB2E333AD39F1B684FDD6309

#### Julian Andres Klode / DNS66

Description: Official repository for DNS66 - Ad & Host blocking utility. Apps in this repo are official binaries built by Julian Andres Klode (https://github.com/julian-klode).

URL: https://jak-linux.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=C00A81E44BFF606530C4C7A2137BAC5F1C03D2FDEF6DB3B84C71386EA9BFD225

#### Alefvanoon's Repo

Description: An fdroid repo by Alefvanoon (http://t.me/kiinjas). All apps in this repo are taken pre-compiled by the respective app developers/maintainers.

URL: https://repo.alefvanoon.xyz/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=04DF198F553069C7BE60F057AE12000E99F7700DA895CC1CE2EB11DC871581F1

#### VideLibri - Library app

Description: Official Repo for the library app VideLibri. VideLibri lists the books you have lend from a public library and lets you search the library catalog from your local device.

URL: https://fdroid.videlibri.de/repo?fingerprint=388988E3A53B6F91D1AE39784EA4B5F1A12B22D34F8E3363E5C7F70A1C57A6F4

---
### ------------------------ non-FOSS ------------------------
#### Luca App
***(not FOSS and bad privacy handling, I highly recommend the "Corona-Warn App" instead, with its Fork "Corona Tracing" being on FDroid and working with microG)*** -the Editor

Description: A contact tracing app for event logging during Covid19 that encrypts your personal data for the German public health office.

URL: https://lucaapp.gitlab.io/fdroid-repository/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=4B6F213EB2A61B11047C5509D7956A20A0C969AF608B85E1C8854E9A888DF9BE

#### Haagch

Description: An small collection of Non Foss apps.

URL: https://haagch.frickel.club/files/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=387AC9E58C9481A6B1A8DCE53A16E53645DA694822A8FE50C877EFB5F42E6933

---
**Note**
This collection was taken from the "F-Droid Repositories" Telegram channel, to provide the list to anyone without the limitation of this app. It was also rearranged and structured a bit, for better readibility. I can't grant future updates of this list.
- the Editor

Commit message:

Update List of F Droid repositories: mobilsicher

List-of-F-Droid-repositories.md, after:

State: Dec. 2021

---
## -------------------- Main repos -----------------------------
#### F-Droid Main

Description: Official F-Droid repository, serving apps build directly from its source code & signed by F-Droid.

URL: https://f-droid.org/repo?fingerprint=43238D512C1E5EB2D6569F4A3AFBF5523418B82E0A3ED1552770ABB9A9C9CCAB

🌐 Mirror List: HERE (https://gitlab.com/fdroid/mirror-monitor/-/raw/master/README.md)

#### F-Droid Archive

Description: Archive of the official F-Droid repository. Apps here are old & can contain known vulnerabilities & security issues!

URL: https://f-droid.org/archive?fingerprint=43238D512C1E5EB2D6569F4A3AFBF5523418B82E0A3ED1552770ABB9A9C9CCAB

#### IzzyOnDroid

Description: An F-Droid style repository for Android apps. Applications in this repository are official binaries built by the original application developers. It mostly includes those apps which cannot meet, or are not yet ready to meet F-Droid app inclusion criteria (https://f-droid.org/docs/Inclusion_Policy/?title=Inclusion_Policy).

URL: https://apt.izzysoft.de/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=3BF0D6ABFEAE2F401707B6D966BE743BF0EEE49C2561B9BA39073711F628937A

#### Guardian Project main

Description: Official repository of guardian project apps. All apps build here are from official binaries by dev & signed with same key as on google play store.

URL: https://guardianproject.info/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=B7C2EEFD8DAC7806AF67DFCD92EB18126BC08312A7F2D6F3862E46013C7A6135

#### Guardian Project Archive

Description: Official repository of guardian project apps which contains older versions of apps from main repository.

URL: https://guardianproject.info/fdroid/archive?fingerprint=B7C2EEFD8DAC7806AF67DFCD92EB18126BC08312A7F2D6F3862E46013C7A6135

#### Firefox Unofficial

Description: Unofficial repository for various apps, including firefox, wire, signal and spotify.

URL: https://rfc2822.gitlab.io/fdroid-firefox/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=8F992BBBA0340EFE6299C7A410B36D9C8889114CA6C58013C3587CDA411B4AED

#### DivestOS Official

Description: Official repository for apps created by Divested Computing Group. All apps are developed by Divested Computing Group with the exception of Fennec DOS which is based on Mozilla technology.

URL: https://divestos.org/fdroid/official/?fingerprint=E4BE8D6ABFA4D9D4FEEF03CDDA7FF62A73FD64B75566F6DD4E5E577550BE8467

#### mobilsicher Ethical Apps

A curated selection of apps for German users, by mobilsicher.de.

URL: https://repo.mobilsicher.de/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=D8EE660B3812AA2DF68D8A9740C02B8C5315C3BB0911E3C223A527A3C7A97495

---
## -------------------------------- Messaging -------------------------
### Signal -----------------
#### TwinHelix - Signal FOSS

Description: Signal FOSS is an open source degoogled fork of Signal for Android that uses OpenStreetMaps for maps and a websocket connection to the Signal server

URL: https://fdroid.twinhelix.com/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=7B03B0232209B21B10A30A63897D3C6BCA4F58FE29BC3477E8E3D8CF8E304028

#### Molly

Description: A fork of Signal messenger with passphrase lock and anti-forensic features.

URL: https://molly.im/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=3B7E93B1FE32C6E35A93D6DDFC5AFBEB1239A7C6EA6AF20FF33ED53CDC38B04A

#### Molly FOSS

Description: FOSS build of Molly without proprietary dependencies. Compatible with microG.

URL: https://molly.im/fdroid/foss/repo?fingerprint=5198DAEF37FC23C14D5EE32305B2AF45787BD7DF2034DE33AD302BDB3446DF74

#### Session
(based on Signal)

Description: Official repository for Session, a private messenger focussed on security with decentralized servers & minimal metadata footprints.

URL: https://fdroid.getsession.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=DB0E5297EB65CC22D6BD93C869943BDCFCB6A07DC69A48A0DD8C7BA698EC04E6

#### Ember's Repo

Description: Unofficial repository for uGet Download manager, the Universal (non-GSF) version of Signal and Freedoom.

URL: https://fdroid.heartshine.xyz/repo?fingerprint=11579B3CE3F5F9398C9E124EE301744382B77250E548F0D4ED90EA0212A5460F

---
### private --------------------
#### Briar

Description: Official repository for Briar an messenger app that does not require any server and hides metadata.

URL: https://briarproject.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=1FB874BEE7276D28ECB2C9B06E8A122EC4BCB4008161436CE474C257CBF49BD6

#### FluffyChat

Description: Official repository for FluffyChat, an Decentralized Chat App, compatible with Riot/Matrix Protocol.

URL: https://fdroid.fluffychat.im/?fingerprint=8E2637AEF6697CC6DD486AF044A6EE45B1A742AE3EF56566E748CDE8BC65C1FB

#### FluffyChat Nightly

Description: Official repository for FluffyChat containing nightly test versions of FluffyChat.

URL: https://nightly.fdroid.fluffychat.im/?fingerprint=21A469657300576478B623DF99D8EB889A80BCD939ACA60A4074741BEAEC397D

#### SchildiChat (with Google Push Notification support)

Description: SchildiChat for Android is a Matrix Client based on Element Android.

URL: https://s2.spiritcroc.de/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=6612ade7e93174a589cf5ba26ed3ab28231a789640546c8f30375ef045bc9242

#### SchildiChat Beta

Description: Official repository for SchildiChat containing beta versions having google push notification & FOSS variant.

URL: https://s2.spiritcroc.de/testing/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=52d03f2fab785573bb295c7ab270695e3a1bdd2adc6a6de8713250b33f231225

#### Quasseldroid by kuschku

Description: Official Repository for all kuschku.de applications, including Quasseldroid.

URL: https://repo.kuschku.de/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=A0CBC2C29E38ED9542F86A1188412A60C5A756FC4D7A31C4C622242D7AD021F2

#### Submarine

Description: Repository contains apps like Launchpad (an audio sequencer), Protox (c++ based tox client).

URL: https://submarine.strangled.net/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=3DB2D09F573245E005B6A54EB5EBF6E6A351D6A5161CFEEFF1442C939597C31B

---
### not completely private --------------
#### Cutthecord

Description: Official repository for cutthecord an modular Client Mod for Discord’s Android app.

URL: https://fdroid.a3.pm/seabear/repo/?fingerprint=9DC9CB5FDD85D37121A5FEE99D24475F03FEA7F2EC25FB94DD51866D87933ED1

#### Ltt.rs

Description: Official repository for Ltt.rs, an easy to use Email client.

URL: https://ltt.rs/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=9C2E57C85C279E5E1A427F6E87927FC1E2278F62D61D7FCEFDE9346E568CCF86

---
## ------------------------ Google related -----------------
#### MicroG

Description: Official repository for microG an free as in freedom re-implementation of Google’s proprietary Android user space apps and libraries.

URL: https://microg.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=9BD06727E62796C0130EB6DAB39B73157451582CBD138E86C468ACC395D14165

#### NewPipe

Description: Official repository for NewPipe, an lightweight Youtube frontend. It contains bleeding edge builds directly from its github.

URL: https://archive.newpipe.net/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=E2402C78F9B97C6C89E97DB914A2751FDA1D02FE2039CC0897A462BDB57E7501

#### Bromite

Description: Bromite is Chromium plus ad blocking and enhanced privacy browser. Official repository of bromite & chromium binaries build by the original app developer.

URL: https://fdroid.bromite.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=E1EE5CD076D7B0DC84CB2B45FB78B86DF2EB39A3B6C56BA3DC292A5E0C3B9504

#### Ungoogled Chromium

Description: Official repository of ungoogled chromium android web browser.

URL: https://www.droidware.info/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=2144449AB1DD270EC31B6087409B5D0EA39A75A9F290DA62AC1B238A0EAAF851

#### Nanolx

Description: Companion repository for Nanodroid, contains patched play store & MPV.

URL: https://nanolx.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=862ED9F13A3981432BF86FE93D14596B381D75BE83A1D616E2D44A12654AD015

---
## --------------------------- popular Apps ----------------------
#### Collabora Office

Description: Official Repository for Collabora Office. An Text editor, Spreadsheet & Presentation program based on Open Source LibreOffice suite. Currently this app is in active development, feedback & bug reports are very welcome.

URL: https://www.collaboraoffice.com/downloads/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=573258C84E149B5F4D9299E7434B2B69A8410372921D4AE586BA91EC767892CC

#### Bitwarden

Description: Official repository for Bitwarden an secure and free password manager for all of your devices.

URL: https://mobileapp.bitwarden.com/fdroid?fingerprint=BC54EA6FD1CD5175BCCCC47C561C5726E1C3ED7E686B6DB4B18BAC843A3EFE6C

---
## --------------------------- Privacy -----------------------
#### I2P

Description: Official repository for I2P, an anonymous network, exposing a simple layer that applications can use to anonymously and securely send messages to each other.

URL: https://f-droid.i2p.io/repo?fingerprint=68E76561AAF3F53DD53BA7C03D795213D0CA1772C3FAC0159B50A5AA85C45DC6

#### Umbrella

Description: Official repository for Security First’s flagship Umbrella app which gives you free digital and physical security advice when you need it most.

URL: https://secfirst.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=39EB57052F8D684514176819D1645F6A0A7BD943DBC31AB101949006AC0BC228

#### Frostnerd (Nebulo)

Description: Official repository for Nebulo an DNS changer app which implements DNS-over-HTTPs and DNS-over-TLS to safely send your DNS requests to the target server.

URL: https://fdroid.frostnerd.com/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=74BB580F263EC89E15C207298DEC861B5069517550FE0F1D852F16FA611D2D26

#### Insporation

Description: Official repository for builds of the Insporation - an flutter based client for diaspora

URL: https://jhass.github.io/insporation/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=EC792A58B39DF9FBB466FB100E30E3842F229FDBC6E28D32C417F6A5B30ECCAE

#### Kali Nethunter

Description: Official Kali Nethunter repository for applications used in penetration testing and forensics.

URL: https://store.nethunter.com/repo?fingerprint=7E418D34C3AD4F3C37D7E6B0FACE13332364459C862134EB099A3BDA2CCF4494

---
## ---------------- specific OS -----------------------
#### The Calyx Institute F-Droid Repository

Description: An F-Droid Repository by Calyx Institute made for their well known CalyxOS mobile OS. All apps in this repo are official binaries built from the source by the developers of CalyxOS.

URL: https://calyxos.gitlab.io/calyx-fdroid-repo/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=C44D58B4547DE5096138CB0B34A1CC99DAB3B4274412ED753FCCBFC11DC1B7B6

#### KDE Nightly

Description: Official repository by KDE containing nightly test versions of their android applications.

URL: https://cdn.kde.org/android/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=B3EBE10AFA6C5C400379B34473E843D686C61AE6AD33F423C98AF903F056523F

---
#### DivestOS Unofficial

Description: This repository contains unofficial builds of open source apps that are not included in the official F-Droid repo or IzzySoft repo.

URL: https://divestos.org/fdroid/unofficial/?fingerprint=A18CDB92F40EBFBBF778A54FD12DBD74D90F1490CB9EF2CC6C7E682DD556855D

#### Wind Offline

Description: Repository contains collection of apps that work offline or with limited internet functionality.

URL: https://guardianproject-wind.s3.amazonaws.com/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=182CF464D219D340DA443C62155198E399FEC1BC4379309B775DD9FC97ED97E1

#### F-Droid Classic

Description: Repository for F-Droid client with the classic UI.

URL: https://bubu1.eu/fdroidclassic/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=5187CFD99F084FFAB2AD60D9D10B39203B89A46DD4862397FE1B1A4F3D46627A

#### Netsyms Technologies

Description: Official repository by Netsyms, an application catalogue to access their apps without Play store.

URL: https://repo.netsyms.com/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=2581BA7B32D3AB443180C4087CAB6A7E8FB258D3A6E98870ECB3C675E4D64489

#### Plight

Description: Official repository of pilight, an open source domotica solution that runs on various small form factor computers like Raspberry Pi etc with support on various types of platforms.

URL: https://android.pilight.org/?fingerprint=AE9E51B4AD1350847C8EBE0833D5C65B052F51371F4167DEF3AB2831CF7B1809

#### Monerujo

Description: Official repository for Monerujo, the first app for managing and using Monero wallets on Android.

URL: https://f-droid.monerujo.io/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=A82C68E14AF0AA6A2EC20E6B272EFF25E5A038F3F65884316E0F5E0D91E7B713

#### Rakshazi

Description: Repository for some foss apps, which are not included in main F-Droid repo like Firefox preview, Skytube extra, Bitwarden & Activity manager.

URL: https://fdroid.rakshazi.me/repo?fingerprint=80BF9EC0BCCED7DA2C9B272FA9B53A30E5B79282CFD629BDE14AB1FF1658C02E

#### Fakecake (tiny tiny rss)

Description: Repository contains apps from git.tt-rss.org. 

URL: https://srv.tt-rss.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=C117B9EAEDFCBA8BEF73263CA9490DB905EDFFFE5D7C071FFAAE152A75FCB6E4

#### F-Droid Nightly

Description: Official repository for f-droid nightly & basic client version.

URL: https://gitlab.com/fdroid/fdroidclient-nightly/raw/master/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=659E1FD284549F70D13FB02C620100E27EEEA3420558CCE62B0F5D4CF2B77D84

#### LibRetro (Retroarch)

Description: Official repository for RetroArch an bleeding edge frontend for emulators, game engines and media players.

URL: https://fdroid.libretro.com/repo?fingerprint=3F05B24D497515F31FEAB421297C79B19552C5C81186B3750B7C131EF41D733D

#### RWTHApp

Description: Official repository for RWTHApp by RWTH Aachen University to help their students about their studies, timetable, grades, feedbacks & other important events right on their smartphone.

URL: https://app.rwth-aachen.de/fdroid?fingerprint=FC61FE95692E4171027C39D46BD25DE20C59D3D09909B5D4CD5EE3692932DC92

#### 2br-2b's Repo

Description: A repository by 2br-2b (https://github.com/2br-2b) for distributing his open source programs, along with one for his friends.

URL: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/2br-2b/Fdroid-repo/master/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=90B5B0DDE20A84FB42CB960F41D279B0D3BB86578A42E773364A5534C0E8D27A

#### Patched Applications (Langis)

Description: Original applications, modified for many purpose as better compatibility, better privacy. Read app description for more info.

URL: https://thecapslock.gitlab.io/fdroid-patched-apps/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=313D9E6E789FF4E8E2D687AAE31EEF576050003ED67963301821AC6D3763E3AC

#### c:geo

Description: Official repository for c:geo stable builds. An open-source, full-featured, always ready-to-go Geocaching application.

URL: https://fdroid.cgeo.org?fingerprint=370BB4D550C391D5DCCB6C81FD82FDA4892964764E085A09B7E075E9BAD5ED98

#### c:geo Nightly

Description: Official repository for c:geo nightly builds.

URL: https://fdroid.cgeo.org/nightly?fingerprint=370BB4D550C391D5DCCB6C81FD82FDA4892964764E085A09B7E075E9BAD5ED98

#### c:geo Legacy

Description: Official repository for c:geo specifically for Legacy devices.

URL: https://fdroid.cgeo.org/legacy?fingerprint=370BB4D550C391D5DCCB6C81FD82FDA4892964764E085A09B7E075E9BAD5ED98

#### Fedilab Apps

Description: Official repository for fedilab apps. Applications in this repository are official binaries built by the developer of Fedilab.

URL: https://fdroid.fedilab.app/repo?fingerprint=11F0A69910A4280E2CD3CCC3146337D006BE539B18E1A9FEACE15FF757A94FEB

#### Sum7 Conv6ations Nightly

Description: Official repository hosting the Nightly builds of Sum7 Conv6ations (https://f-droid.org/app/eu.sum7.conversations) client (FLOSS fork of Conversations.IM). The application held here is official binary built by Genofire (Sum7 Dev).

URL: https://dev.sum7.eu/sum7/Conversations-nightly/raw/master/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=C7E9508038F18C955BAAC0F04EF55E4EEDB31A9AFB2E333AD39F1B684FDD6309

#### Julian Andres Klode / DNS66

Description: Official repository for DNS66 - Ad & Host blocking utility. Apps in this repo are official binaries built by Julian Andres Klode (https://github.com/julian-klode).

URL: https://jak-linux.org/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=C00A81E44BFF606530C4C7A2137BAC5F1C03D2FDEF6DB3B84C71386EA9BFD225

#### Alefvanoon's Repo

Description: An fdroid repo by Alefvanoon (http://t.me/kiinjas). All apps in this repo are taken pre-compiled by the respective app developers/maintainers.

URL: https://repo.alefvanoon.xyz/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=04DF198F553069C7BE60F057AE12000E99F7700DA895CC1CE2EB11DC871581F1

#### VideLibri - Library app

Description: Official Repo for the library app VideLibri. VideLibri lists the books you have lend from a public library and lets you search the library catalog from your local device.

URL: https://fdroid.videlibri.de/repo?fingerprint=388988E3A53B6F91D1AE39784EA4B5F1A12B22D34F8E3363E5C7F70A1C57A6F4

---
### ------------------------ non-FOSS ------------------------
#### Luca App
***(not FOSS and bad privacy handling, I highly recommend the "Corona-Warn App" instead, with its Fork "Corona Tracing" being on FDroid and working with microG)*** -the Editor

Description: A contact tracing app for event logging during Covid19 that encrypts your personal data for the German public health office.

URL: https://lucaapp.gitlab.io/fdroid-repository/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=4B6F213EB2A61B11047C5509D7956A20A0C969AF608B85E1C8854E9A888DF9BE

#### Haagch

Description: An small collection of Non Foss apps.

URL: https://haagch.frickel.club/files/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=387AC9E58C9481A6B1A8DCE53A16E53645DA694822A8FE50C877EFB5F42E6933

---
**Note**
This collection was taken from the "F-Droid Repositories" Telegram channel, to provide the list to anyone without the limitation of this app. It was also rearranged and structured a bit, for better readibility. I can't grant future updates of this list.
- the Editor
